Cloud Migration Strategies:-

Rehost:-
1. This is basically lift and shift means just copy paste the on-premise infra and data into cloud as it is.
2. eg:- If in on-premise you have a k8s cluster with 3 namespaces and 20pods and even in cloud you will have to create k8s cluster with same os, same namespaces and 
same number of pods
3. suitable for application that are platform independent
When we say an application is platform independent, it means the application can run on different operating systems or hardware platforms without needing major changes.
A platform-independent application can run on:
Windows
Linux
macOS using the same codebase.
4. cost optimization is  minimum because you did not use AWS best prcatices or other services

Replatform:-
1. You will migrate the applications with few changes.
2. you will take advantage of the services that are provided by AWS that are feasible for ut application but are not present on a on-premise infrastructure.
3. eg:- May be like creating k8s cluster in multiple regions for high availability scalability of your application.

Repurchase:-
eg:- 
Refactor:-
1. This strategy is best suitable for monolithic applications , for these applications we will have to rearchitecture the entire code base to divide into microservices.

Relocate:-
You have a k8s cluster on-premise, we will move it to eks on aws or openshift

Retire:-
Applications that nobosy is using.

Retain:-
1. There are some applications/microservices that can eiter be on-premise or they are not that important to migrate to cloud.
2. eg:- very confidentail information like user details, and AWS will connect to these applications

Cloud Migration process:-

Step 1:- Preparation Stage
1. You have joined a Migration team as a devops engineer, Your organization might have 200 microservice or one monolithic application, developers and devops should work
together and transform the monolithic application into microservices.
2. Check whether your organization is following a monolithic or microservices architecture.
3. In the world of cloud it is suggested to create microservices application so it easy to deploy them as containers.

step2:- planning
1. You will have to check in which phases what microservices/applications will be deployed to cloud, so basically divide the 200 applications/microservices in multiple
phases/waves.
In phase1 you might send or migrate the applications that are non critical, more critical ones will be sent in last phase.
2. Select which migration strategy you will use.

NOTE:- Preparation and planning is a one time activity, optimize is also a one time activity

step3:- Migration
Migrate the application from on-premise to cloud as per their phases.

step4:- Monitor
1. Monitor the applications that are migrated for 1-2 months based on their criticality.
2. asking the customers to share their feedback on these applications, create dashborads and monitor the performance for 1-2 months.

step5:- improve/optimize
1. Migrated to cloud what did i achieve, evaluation as to be done, cost optimization?
2. Improve the efficiency maybe increase the cost optimization.

NOTE:- 


