AWS Application Migration service:-(video:- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gVdfsFN6svw)

1. It is a service to migrate on-premise applications to cloud.
2. MGN tool is majorly used for lift and shift migration.
3. It is not just for rehost, you can even do re-platform.
4. Migration is usually done in waves, which means you might have 200 applications running on the on-premise we dont migrate all the 200 at a time, we first migrate
non-critical 20 applications in first wave and the most critical ones in the last wave.

Few terminology in MGN console:-
1. source servers:- It basically shows the names of the source servers on the on-premise and their current status(replication ongoing, ready for test, ready for cutover)
2. Application:- collection of servers that belong to a single application
3. wave:- collection of applications that should be migrated in a single wave
7. Replication template:- configuration details of the replication instances, these instances will not be visible in the ec2 console but they are managed by AWS.
8:- launch template:- configuration details for actual ec2 creation, it could be test/prod servers
9:- A Conversion Instance is a temporary EC2 instance that AWS MGN launches during a Test or Cutover launch to prepare the replicated disks so they can boot correctly as an EC2 instance

There are 2 ways you can do migration from on-premise to cloud:-
1. Server based:- you have to install agent and do the migration
2. Mass migration:- use v-center

NOTE:- In our organization we have used agent based migration

NOTE:- AWS replicates the disk as it is including the c and drive data sizes
Replication and conversion instances must be created in public subnet
Once the replication is completed it will create snapshot
An EBS Snapshot is a point-in-time copy of an EBS volume stored in Amazon S3 (managed by AWS), these snapshots are created in ebs service,
whenever tthere is a change in on-prmise server data, it will be replicated and a snapsot will be created

MGN Process:-

1. TCP port 443 is used to authenticate to MGN service and TCP 1500 is used for data replication, and the data that is being replicated or migrated is completely encrypted.
2. When you proceed with any data center migration you must collect the information such as server ipaddress, hostname of the applications running on that server, operating system and then what kind of application is running


step1:- Create a MGN service in the region you want to migrate your application to
output:- some 7 roles will be created when we create MGN service
step2:- Install the replication agents on the on-premise servers which you want to migrate, you can make use of ipaddress of these servers via ssh to connect to them
give the region and the mgn user/roles details so that authentication to AWS can happen without any issue and data will be replicated to that region
step3:- once Replication istances are available, now launch test instances.
output:- actual ec2 instances will be created and ebs volume is created from data stored in snapshot
Replication is still continued but the chaanges will not reflected in test instances as they are created from a previous snapshot
step4;- once testing is done, mark "ready for cutover" and delete the test instances
output:- all the test instances will be deleted wait till then
step5:- select "launch cutover instances", new ec2 instances will be created from the latest snapshot
step6:- stop the on-premise, update the DNS and select "cutover complete", replication will be stopped and all the data related to it will be deleted


What happens after agent installation?
When you provide the AWS credentials and Region:
The server gets registered with AWS MGN.
AWS creates replication infrastructure in your AWS account (in the staging area).
The agent starts reading disk blocks from the on-premises server.
Those disk blocks are copied to AWS continuously.

Is an EC2 instance created immediately?
Usually No.
By default, MGN creates:
✅ Replication servers (temporary AWS-managed servers)
✅ EBS volumes that receive replicated data
❌ No production EC2 yet



What is the Replication Server?
The replication server is a small temporary EC2 instance that AWS automatically creates in the staging subnet.
Its job is to:
Receive disk blocks from the on-prem server
Compress/process replication traffic
Write data to EBS volumes
Maintain continuous synchronization

What is a Conversion Instance?
A Conversion Instance is a temporary EC2 instance that AWS MGN launches during a Test or Cutover launch to prepare the replicated disks so they can boot correctly as an EC2 instance.
It performs OS-level conversions such as:
Installing AWS drivers
Configuring boot settings
Updating networking configuration
Installing AWS agents
Making Windows/Linux compatible with AWS EC2

After the conversion is complete, AWS launches the final EC2 instance.

Migration Lifecycle:-

1. not ready:- Migration is ongoing from on-premise to the cloud replication instances.
2. Ready for testing;- Initial sync is completed and replication instances are now available
3. Testing in Progress;- Testing instances are created and testing is in progress
4. ready for cutover:- once the testing is done completely it will move to this state

